=head1 Upgrading to METAMOD 2.11 from 2.10

Upgrading to 2.11 only consists of stopping all services, installing the new
version, running the install_jobs script and restarting the services as described
in L<Deploying|../deploying>.

No change in configuration is necessary  since the only new features
are in the WMS client. To take advantage of these, some changes to the wmsinfo
entries could be desired.

=head2 WMSinfo format

=head3 Old version 2.10

Previously, the only elements available were B<displayArea> and B<layer>.
Also there was only a single url attribute which could be used for either
parent or child datasets, but not both:

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <w:ncWmsSetup xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xmlns:w="http://www.met.no/schema/metamod/ncWmsSetup"
        url="http://dev-vm188/thredds/wms/osisaf/met.no/%DATASET_PARENT%/%DATASET%.nc"
        xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.met.no/schema/metamod/ncWmsSetup ncWmsSetup.xsd ">

        <w:displayArea crs="EPSG:32661" left="-3000000" right="7000000" bottom="-3000000" top="7000000"/>
        <w:layer name="ice_conc" style="BOXFILL/occam"/>
        <w:layer name="lat"/>

    </w:ncWmsSetup>

=head3 New version 2.11

The WMS URLs for parent and child datasets are now specified separately:

=over 4

=item url

WMS URL for level 2 datasets (children). The substitutions C<%DATASET%>, C<%DATASET_PARENT%>,
C<%THREDDS_DATASET%> and C<%THREDDS_DATAREF%> (deprecated) are allowed. See wmsurl()
in the API documentation on the Dataset class for further explanation:

  perldoc Metamod::DBIxSchema::Userbase::Result::Dataset

I<(Make sure your PERL5LIB contains the path to ./common/lib of your METAMOD installation.)>

=item aggregate_url

WMS URL for level 1 datasets (parents). Only %DATASET% can be substituted

=back


Two more elements have been added:

=head4 baselayer

This works like B<layer>, but specifies a non-transparent baselayer normally to be used
for background maps.

=head4 thumbnail

This is used to specify how the thumbnail in the search result should be setup.
Currently the same thumbnail element is used for both parent and children (subject to change).

All elements share a few common attributes:

=over 4

=item name

The Layer Name from WMS Capabilities

=item style

(Only for thumbnails) The preferred Layer Name from WMS Capabilities

=item url

WMS URL (if different from the one in the ncWmsSetup element).
No %...% substitutions are allowed

=item time

ISO timestamp as given in Dimensions in WMS Capabilities (mandatory in timeseries
unless the WMS server handles default time parameters)

=back

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <w:ncWmsSetup xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xmlns:w="http://www.met.no/schema/metamod/ncWmsSetup"
        aggregate_url="http://thredds.met.no/thredds/wms/cryoclim/met.no/osisaf-sh-agg"
        url="http://thredds.met.no/thredds/wcs/cryoclim/met.no/%DATASET_PARENT%/%DATASET%.nc"
        xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.met.no/schema/metamod/ncWmsSetup ncWmsSetup.xsd ">

        <w:displayArea crs="EPSG:432600" left="0" right="60" bottom="30" top="90" units="degrees"/>
        <w:baselayer name="kart" style="default"/>
        <w:thumbnail name="ec.Temperatur,kart" style=",contour" time="2012-08-20T12:00:00.000Z"
          url="http://thredds.met.no/thredds/wms/sea_ice/SIW-OSISAF-GLO-SIT_SIE_SIC-OBS/ice_conc_north_aggregated"/>

    </w:ncWmsSetup>

=head2 Obsolete directives

These no longer have any effect in Metamod 2.11:

    WMS_BACKGROUND_ISBASELAYER
