=head1 Upgrading to METAMOD 2.10 from 2.9

=head2 Main features

There is no more generation of scripts, and install_target.pl has been removed.
Instead everything is now run from the source directory. As a consequence all
scripts must be told where to find the config (either via a parameter or setting
an enviroment variable).

PHP is no longer used. The mod_php Apache module is no longer needed.

=head2 Configuration variables

=over 4

=item BASE_DIRECTORY

=item SOURCE_DIRECTORY

=item TARGET_DIRECTORY

These are no longer used. Target no longer exists, and the config may be used
unchanged for several source installations (handy for development).

=item PG_CONNECTSTRING_SHELL

Should no longer be used, instead configure Postgres to use sockets
(change local ident to trust in pg_hba.conf).

=item PG_ADMIN_USER_PASSWORD

This may be necessary in Perl scripts for creating databases over tcp/ip.

=back

=head2 Perl modules

These should be included in the Debian dependencies package and are only
listed for those wishing to install manually.

=over 4

=item HTTP::OAI

=item XML::SAX::Writer

=back

=head2 Simplified installation

=head3 Program installation via Debian packages

    dpkg -i metno-perl-webdev-ver1

    dpkg -i metno-metamod-2.10_2.10.0-1_all.deb

=head3 Program installation (manual)

    cpan install

=head3 Local configuration

applic directory

=head3 Automatic setup

    createusers.sh
    createdb.sh
    createuserdb.sh

    install_jobs

    prepare_runtime_env.sh
    (ownership?)
