=head1 Upgrading to METAMOD 2.12 from 2.11

Upgrading to 2.12 only consists of stopping all services, installing the new
version, running the install_jobs script and restarting the services as described
in L<Deploying|../deploying>.

No change in METAMID configuration is required for existing sites. However, to enable the
new features in 2.12 some additional metadata are required.
Also, FIMEX 0.41 or later must be installed, and the executable path set in master_config:

  FIMEX_PROGRAM = /usr/bin/fimex

=head2 Timeseries plot

METAMOD 2.12 includes a JavaScript-based timeseries plotting library in the browser.

To enable plotting of timeseries, add the following elements to the XML files (or use
the metadata editor):

=over 4

=item Level 1 dataset

A list of variables to be plotted for all files, eg:

  <metadata name="timeseries">time,sea_ice_extent</metadata>

The first variable will be used as the X axis. The others (up to two) will be
plotted on the Y axis.

=item Level 2 dataset

The OPeNDAP URL to the file:

  <metadata name="dataref_OPENDAP">http://thredds.met.no/thredds/dodsC/cryoclim/met.no/sie-mar/sie-mar_osisaf_monthly_mean_sie_mar.nc</metadata>

=back

=head3 Server side plotting (optional)

Optionally plotting can be performed by an external server. To enable this, add the following
directive to master_config:

  TIMESERIES_URL=http://ts.example.com/jtimeseries-webservices/thredds/diagram?parameters=[TIMESERIES]&url=[OPENDAP]

The placeholders C<[TIMESERIES]> and C<[OPENDAP]> will be replaced with the
variables C<timeseries> and C<dataref_OPENDAP> respectively.

=head2 Transformation of datasets via OPeNDAP

For transformation, dataref_OPENDAP must be set as in the previous section.

The following parameters are available for subsetting:

=over 4

=item *

variables

=item *

time range

=item *

region (in lat/lon)

=back

Note that in some cases the form fields cannot be populated (or may be incorrect) due to lack of metadata.
Transformation is still available, although the user must figure out the values by him/herself.

=head3 Reprojection (optional)

If Projection info has been set up for the dataset, reprojection should be available.
A list of available projections (as specified in fimexProjections XML) will be displayed in the form.
This feature is currently experimental.

=head2 Dynamic map search

This is a planned feature for a later release. To enable this your map server will need to support
background maps in EPSG:93995 and EPSG:93031 projections. Further projections may be supported
in later versions.
