=head1 METAMOD Datamodel

Back to L<Index|index>

This text describes the data-model and the data-flow within METAMOD2. It is not
about the real data files which are often handled by other applications, i.e. thredds.

=head2 The Metadata

All metadata in METAMOD should consist of two files, the .xml-files (META) and
the .xmd-files (XMD).

The META files contain the discovery metadata as retrieved from
an metadata-editor, extracted from netcdf-files or harvested from external metadata-
repositories. The META files should be stored in the format they have been retrieved, e.g.
DIF, ISO19139 or MM2. They will be converted on export from the L<"The Metadata Store">.

The XMD files are metamod-related information of the metadata. They contain the following information:

=over 4

=item B<name>: the unique identifier, consisting of 2 or 3 path arguments like
            APPLICATION_ID/PARENT_NAME/CHILD_NAME or APPLICATION_ID/NAME

=item B<status>: indicate if the metadata is in use (active) or expired (deleted)

=item B<ownertag>: identifies the source of the metadata (usually one tag for uploaded data per APPLICATION_ID
                and one tag for each harvester source)

=item B<creationDate>: when the metadata whas created/retrieved by metamod

=item B<datestamp>: last change of the xmd-file

=item B<metadataFormat>: The format of the metadata. This is only a best-effort and not a guarantee.

=back

The C<creationDate> and C<datestamp> are only accurate concerning METAMOD and XMD-files.
The META files might have own means to control the creationDate and datastamp and it is up to the
metadata-creator to control those fields.

The XMD-files might also contain information which does not fit in discovery-metadata and is usable
by METAMOD only. That is currently:

=over 4

=item B<quadtree_nodes>: high accuracy geographical region (deprecated since Metamod 2.3)

=item B<datasetRegion>: high accuracy geographical region

=item B<projectionInfo>: control of data-reprojections through fimex

=item B<wmsInfo>: control of WMS-client for the data-representation

=back

=head3 IO-Libraries

To access the XMD files only use L<Metamod::ForeignDataset>. To access the information in the
META files, too (converted to MM2), use L<Metamod::Dataset>.

=head2 The Metadata Store

The Metadata Store of METAMOD is file-based in the C<webrun/XML> directory of the instanses.
It is the authoritative source of all information about Metadata and the way Metamod uses it
(META and XMD files). It has no information related to metamod-users, though.

The XMD and META files are stored in directories named APPLICATION_ID.

=head2 The (SQL) Database

The SQL Database consists of two parts, called Index- and User-databse. The database
can be used by several instances of metamod. Currently, one instance will have the ownership
of the database. That intance is then responsible for database-creation and all metadata-indexing.
That instance will need the path to all instances C<webrun/XML> directories.

=head3 Index-Database

The Index-database is an excerpt of all Metadata Stores for faster (indexed) access.
All META files are converted to MM2 metadata to be searchable in an easy way. Only the
web-needed information from the META-files can be found in the database.

=head3 User-Database

The User-database stores all information related directly to users of metamod. That is:

=over 4

=item B<user, user-names, passwords, ...>: (might be externalized, i.e. LDAP) This information is unique
      among all instances.

=item B<user-roles in instances>: roles for the instances are prepended by the 'APPLICATION_ID'

=item B<datasets ownerships> (owned by users)

=item B<access-keys for users to datasets> (dirkeys)

=item B<user-subscriptions to datasets>

=item B<collection-baskets of users> (temporary?)

=item B<temporary information> i.e. database-tables for queues and everything which is faster/simpler to store (medium temporary)
in a database than in the file-system.

=back
