=head1 METAMOD overview

=head2 Introduction

This document assumes that the basic METAMOD software are working on the various servers where METAMOD
are intended to run.  How to achieve this is described in a separate document: ... The current document
describes how to use the software to create a cluster of one or more co-operating METAMOD applications
(or METAMOD instances).

=head2 Data base

All the METAMOD instances in a cluster share a common data base. This data base is divided into the
following parts:

=over 17

=item B<Metadatabase>

SQL Database for Metadata. This can be shared among different METAMOD instances

=item B<User database>

SQL Database for User administration. Each METAMOD instance must have it's own private user database

=item B<XML archive>

Metadata file archive based on XML

=item B<Data repository>

Archive of netCDF files

=back

One of the METAMOD applications in a cluster is responsible for the SQL metadata database. Initialization and
administration of the metadata database are done through this application, which is called the I<base>
application. Each METAMOD instance must administer its own user database.

Although the METAMOD instances in a cluster may operate on different servers, they must share a common
file system where the XML archive and the Data repository resides. Technically they may reside on
different file systems, but for each file, the file paths on the various servers must be the same.
Furthermore, for a smooth operation, the clocks on all the involved servers must be synchronized.

The SQL databases may reside on a separate server, different from any of the servers where
the METAMOD instances run.

=head2 METAMOD functional modules

The METAMOD software comprise a broad range of functionality. The software is divided into different
B<modules>, each representing a separate set of related functionality. One such module is the BASE module,
which is used in the base application described above. A METAMOD instance may use any combination of
modules, except for the WEB module which is mandatory.

The only restriction is that one and only one application in a cluster must use the BASE
module to initialize the metadata database. Each application must initialize its own
user database however.

The METAMOD software comprise the following modules, which may be disabled unless
otherwise noted:

=over 10

=item WEB

Web interface for search, file upload, editing metadata, system administration and
web services (RSS, OAI-PMH).
This module is required, although some of the services may be disabled.

=item BASE

Used for creating the SQL databases. Since every METAMOD instance must have its
own user database, this is also required.

=item UPLOAD

Services for uploading (or registering) netCDF files (via web, ftp).

=item HARVEST

Service for harvesting metadata from internet servers offering OAI-PMH support.

=item PMH

OAI-PMH provider service. See http://www.openarchives.org/.

=item THREDDS

Used for automatic building of THREDDS catalogs that may be utilized by a THREDDS Data Server to
access the data repository.

=back

=head2 Directory structure

On each server where METAMOD should run, the generic METAMOD software must be available in some directory.
If you installed METAMOD using a met.no Debian package it will be located in F</opt/metamod-2.x> (where x denotes the minor version).
In the description below, this directory is called the B<installation> directory.

In addition to the generic installation directory you need a configuration
directory. This directory contains configuration files, style sheets etc., and
also files regulating metadata requirements. An example application configuration
directory is included in the generic installation directory (the F<app/example>
subdirectory of the installation directory).

The main subdirectories of the generic installation directory are:

=over 10

=item base

Files only used in the BASE module

=item upload

Files only used in the UPLOAD module (scripts only, the user interface is implemented
in Catalyst)

=item harvest

Files only used in the HARVEST module

=item thredds

Files only used in the THREDDS module

=item common

Files used by several modules

=item catalyst

Perl Catalyst framework files used for the WEB module

=item app

Contains the example application source directory, as well as default configuration settings

=item docs

METAMOD documentation directory

=back

    DIRECTORY STRUCTURE (OBSOLETE - FIXME)
    -------------------

    The top METAMOD 2.x directory (the directory where this README file resides)
    is divided into one subdirectory for each module (base, search, upload, quest,
    pmh, harvest and thredds). There is also a subdirectory (common) where files
    used by many modules resides, and a subdirectory (test) containing a test suite
    for periodically excercising the software while software developement are going
    on. In addition, one subdirectory (app) contains an example application.

    The module directories shares a common structure. During installation of an
    application, a new directory is created (the target directory), and all module
    directories are merged into this target directory. In each module directory
    there is a htdocs subdirectory. The htdocs directories for all the selected
    modules are in the same way merged into one htdocs subdirectory in the target
    directory.  To avoid name collisions, the actual HTML and PHP files etc. are
    contained within subdirectories of the htdocs directory. For example, all such
    files are contained in the directory htdocs/sch for the METAMODSEARCH module,
    and htdocs/upl for the METAMODUPLOAD module. On the target directory, there
    will be a htdocs directory containing both the sch and the upl subdirectories.
    Some htdocs subdirectories may be shared among several modules. For example,
    the METAMODBASE module and the METAMODQUEST module both have files in the adm
    subdirectory. Special care must be taken for these files to avoid name
    collisions.

    Each module directory must also contain a file 'filelist.txt' which
    lists all files comprising the module.

    Each METAMOD application must be configured in a separate directory tree.
    This application directory tree will generally be independent of the METAMOD
    source tree (where this README file resides at the top level). But an example
    of a METAMOD application directory (app/example) is included in the source
    tree as a template for real application directories.

    In each application directory there must be a configuration file called
    'master_config.txt', and a 'filelist.txt' file containing a list of files that
    are specific for the application (image files, style sheets etc.). An
    application directory has the same structure as any of the module directories,
    and contains a htdocs subdirectory divided into sch, upl etc. as needed.
    Any file found in the application directory (and included in the 'filelist.txt'
    file) will replace a corresponding file in a module directory. This makes it
    possible to taylor a METAMOD application to any specific need, but usually this
    mechanism is only used for presentation purposes (stylesheets etc.) and for
    static data used to setting up the search interface.


=head2 SYSTEM OVERVIEW (OBSOLETE - FIXME)

For installation, see docs/html/installing.html.

For each module there is a more detailed README file describing the
operations of that module. This paragraph gives a summary of the operations
of a full application comprising all modules.

An application must be configured and setup as described in L<deploying>.
After installation, if the application is a fresh one (where
no database for the application already exists), a new database must be
initialized and filled with static data. Also, if not already done for the
PostgreSQL installation, two database users must be defined. The default names
of these users are 'admin' and 'webuser', but these names are configurable.
The users can be created by the createusers.sh script, and this must be done
prior to creating the database.

Initializing the database and loading the static data are done by running the
init/create_and_load_all.sh script as described in base/README. The static
data loaded into the database are found in an XML file: staticdata/searchdata.xml
and defines the search categories by which it is possible to search the database.
This file must be found in the application directory of the application owning
the database. All applications using this database will be confined to the
search categories defined by this file. The example application included in
the source tree has one version of this file that is based on the
application installed for the DAMOCLES project.

The software also need a runtime environment that must be set up by the
prepare_runtime_env.sh shell script. This script creates a directory (the
webrun directory) if not already found. Several subdirectories in the webrun
directory are also created. If the prepare_runtime_env.sh script has already
been run during an earlier installation process, it is not neccessary to do it
again (unless a new version of the software requires changes in the runtime
environment). On the other hand, a re-run of this script will do no harm.

After initialization, loading of static data and setting up the runtime
environment, the web interfaces for the METAMODSEARCH, METAMODUPLOAD and
METAMODQUEST modules should be up and running.

To fill the database with metadata, any of the METAMODUPLOAD, METAMODQUEST
and/or METAMODHARVEST modules must be applied. These modules produce XML files
with metadata describing datasets (see base/README_XML).

Datasets are organized hierarchically in two levels. The top level contains
directory datasets. Each directory dataset may own one or more file datasets
at the second (bottom) level. File datasets will correspond to physical files
found in a local or external data repository. Directory datasets may correspond
to directories in the data repositories where these files reside. The database
will also contain independent datasets that own no file dataset on the second
level. These datasets belong to the top level, and are considered directory
datasets even if they correspond to no physical directory.

The metadata comprising a dataset are found both in the database and in a set
of XML files in the local file system. Two XML files exist for each
dataset. With the METAMODQUEST routine, all the content of the two XML files has
to be manually entered into an HTML form. The METAMODUPLOAD routine creates the
XML files based on netCDF files uploaded to a data repository. Uploads may either
be done interactively through the METAMODUPLOAD web interface, or by FTP
(usually from a script run by the data provider). Each netCDF file will
comprise one file dataset. The data provider decides how files and file datasets
are organized into directories and directory datasets. The METAMODHARVEST module
periodically harvest metadata from external sources. The harvested metadata are
saved as XML files.

The collection of XML files comprise at any time, a full backup of the database.
A script exists that will recreate the database from the XML files.

Two perl scripts are responsible for extracting the metadata from the netCDF
files and load them into the database. The first script, upload_monitor.pl,
belongs to the METAMODUPLOAD module. This script extracts the metadata from
a batch of netCDF files and creates/updates the corresponding XML files. The
other script, import_dataset.pl, belongs to the METAMODBASE module. This
script monitors a number of directories to see if XML files are created or
updated, and loads the XML files into the database. Both scripts are running
in the background. They wake up at regular intervals to see if any work
are pending. These perl scripts have to be manually started by the
'metamodInit.sh start' shell script. They will run until another shell script,
'metamodInit.sh stop', stops the scripts in an orderly fashion.
